Add guidance for Exit this page component and pattern (#2721)
alphagov/govuk-design-system: src/patterns/exit-a-page-quickly/index.md

---
title: Exit a page quickly

> description: Give users a way to quickly exit a service, website or application quickly and safely.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Give users a way to quickly and safely exit a service, website or application.
```

section: Patterns
theme: Help users to…
aliases:
backlog_issue_id: 213
layout: layout-pane.njk
status: Experimental
statusMessage: This component is currently experimental. You'll need to do your own research to decide whether to use this pattern and add the <a class="govuk-link" href="/components/exit-this-page/">Exit this page</a> component to your service.
---

{% from "_example.njk" import example %}

> Give users a way to quickly exit a service, website or application quickly and safely.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Give users a way to quickly and safely exit a service, website or application.
```

> Use this pattern to add the [Exit this page](/components/exit-this-page/) component to your service and help users use it safely to protect their privacy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use this pattern to add the [Exit this page](/components/exit-this-page/) component to your service and keep users safe by helping them to protect their privacy.
```

Reviewer: This suggestion was a trial to see if I could lose the 'users use' part of the sentence.

Author: How about this? Feeling like we need to keep the focus of this on the user.

```suggestion
Use this pattern to add the [Exit this page](/components/exit-this-page/) component to your service, which helps users protect their privacy and keep themselves safe.
```

Reviewer: Yes, that's the one

## When to use this pattern

Use this pattern to help the user protect their privacy when your service contains sensitive information that could:
- put someone at risk of abuse or retaliation
- reveal someone’s plans to avoid or escape from harm

For example, a potential victim using a service to help them leave domestic abuse.

> Other examples of sensitive information that could put users at risk include:
> - rape or sexual assault
> - child abuse and neglect
> - any other type of abuse
> - stalking and harassment
> - reporting crime or fraud (whistleblowing)

Author: ```suggestion
Other situations and topics where sensitive information could put users at risk might include:
- rape or sexual assault
- child abuse and neglect
- any other type of abuse
- stalking and harassment
- reporting crime or fraud (whistleblowing)
```

## When not to use this pattern

You should not use this pattern for standalone content pages, such as dashboards and guidance. In these cases, use the Exit this page component on its own.

## How it works

First, you’ll need to add the [Exit this page](/components/exit-this-page/) component to your service and decide how it should work within your service.

> The component has several parts, including:
> - a button, that takes the user to another website
> - a secondary link, to give people that use assistive technologies a way to activate the component
> - a loading overlay, to immediately clear any content off the browser until the next website loads

Author: ```suggestion
The component has several parts, including:
- a button, that when activated, will take the user to another website
- a secondary link, to give people that use assistive technologies another way to activate the component
- a loading overlay, to immediately clear any content off the browser until the next website loads
```

> - a loading overlay, to immediately clears any content off the browser until the next website loads

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- a loading overlay, to immediately clear any content off the browser until the next website loads
```

Next, you’ll need to create new content pages in your service.

The purpose of these pages are to:

> - tell the users how to use ‘Exit this page’ to protect their privacy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- tell the users how to use ‘Exit this page’ to protect their privacy (this called the interruption page)
```

> - give users information they need to stay safe online

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- give users information they need to stay safe online (this is called the safety content page)
```

Reviewer: adding these couple of bits in brackets to make it clear how the following content sections relate to this intro/summary.

Author: I like these!

> Keep in mind that this pattern is not a complete solution to eliminating all possible risk to the user. Perpetrators can monitor potential victims through other methods, such as malicious software.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This pattern is not a complete solution to eliminating all possible risk to the user. Perpetrators can monitor potential victims through other methods, such as malicious software.
```

## Interruption page

> Create a page to tell users what Exit this page does.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a page to explain Exit this page to users.
```

> Show this page just after the start point of your service, and just before the page where the user will see the Exit this page button for the first time. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must show this page after the start point of your service, but before the page where the user will see the Exit this page button for the first time. 
```

On longer services, you might need more than one interruption page.

The page should tell the user:

> - about the ‘Exit this page’ button and what it’s for

Author: ```suggestion
- about the Exit this page button and what it’s for
```

- what happens when they press it

> - that they can also activate Exit this page by pressing shift 3 times or [using the secondary link](/exit-this-page/#adding-the-secondary-link)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- they can also activate Exit this page by pressing shift 3 times or by [using the secondary link](/exit-this-page/#adding-the-secondary-link)
```

> - they can also activate Exit this page by pressing shift 3 times or by [using the secondary link](/exit-this-page/#adding-the-secondary-link)

Author: ```suggestion
- they can also activate Exit this page by pressing shift 3 times or by using the secondary link
```

The page should also tell the user that:

> - their browser history will not be erased, which can still put them at risk

Author: Good idea, it's more for end users (rather than the service teams guidance here), but we could use the term here to make sure it's carried through!

```suggestion
- their internet browser history will not be erased, which can still put them at risk
```

> - their browser history will not be erased, which can still put them at risk

Author: "Internet browsing history"

> - any information they’ve entered will not be saved, depending on what you’ve [decided to do with user session data](/components/exit-this-page/#consider-what-to-do-user-session-data)

Author: ```suggestion
- any information they’ve entered will not be saved, depending on what you’ve [decided to do with user session data](/components/exit-this-page/#consider-what-to-do-with-user-session-data)
```

> - to return to the service, they can search for the site they were using, or find it in their internet browsing history history

Author: ```suggestion
- to return to the service, they can search for the site they were using, or find it in their internet browsing history
```

> - there are other things they can do to stay safe online – include a link to a ‘safety content page’ where they can learn more

Author: ```suggestion
- there are other things they can do to stay safe online (include a link to a ‘safety content page’ where the user can learn more)
```

## Safety content page

Create a page to give users important information they need to stay safe online.

Generally, this page should tell the user other steps they can take to protect their privacy.

> What you include will depend on your service and who uses it. But wherever practical, you should recommend that the user takes some basic steps such as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What you include will depend on your service and who uses it. But wherever practical, you should recommend the user takes some basic steps such as:
```

- only using your service on a public device, such as in a library
- using private browsing

> - clearing their browsing data and cookies

Author: ```suggestion
- clearing their internet browsing history and cookies
```

### Example of a safety content page

{{ example({group: "patterns", item: "exit-a-page-quickly", example: "safety-content-example", html: true, nunjucks: true, open: false, size: "xl"}) }}

Useful resources to help write this safety advice include:
- [Refuge: Secure your tech](https://refugetechsafety.org/secure-your-tech/)
- [Women’s Aid: Cover your tracks online](https://www.womensaid.org.uk/information-support/what-is-domestic-abuse/cover-your-tracks-online/)
- [National Cyber Security Centre: Information for individuals and families](https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/section/information-for/individuals-families/)

> Let us know if you know about any other useful resources we should add to the list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let us know of any other useful resources we should add to the list.
```
